	A relative latecomer to the Star League, the Tenari are a charming and gracious people, well-known for their hospitality to visitors and their many entertainment ventures.  In fact, the multitude of cultural offerings from Narimera and her colonies, according to some scholars, equals that of all other major League races combined.  Music, literature, theater, painting, scupture, movies and holos in two and three dimensions, architecture, and enterprises more exotic; there seems to be no area the Tenari don’t have a hand in.  But how were they able to achieve such dominance in their sphere?

Narimera

	In order to understand the Tenari, one must first understand their world.  Narimera, meaning home of the people in the Tenari tongue, is quite distant from the Core Worlds – among the primary League races, only the Dracontyr homeworld was more distant, and the League came into contact with them earlier than with the Tenari.  Its distance, however, should not dissuade a traveler, for Narimera has been truly called a paradise planet.

	Narimera is approximately 12,677 km in diameter on average, with a crust composition similar to that of Theria, though with a relative scarcity of certain metals.  Its gravity is thus slightly below one Shokari standard grav; most travelers used to that level of gravity won’t notice the difference.  Its atmosphere is likewise standard, though relatively strict air pollution standards make it strikingly pure to those more used to heavy-industry worlds.  Its rotation speed leads to a natural 26-hour day, its revolution to a 366-day year, and its relatively shallow axial tilt to mild seasons.  Water covers approximately 64% of the planet’s surface; polar icecaps are relatively small.  Geologically, Narimera is fairly sedate; much of the surface consists of flatlands or rolling hills, with only a few rougher mountainous areas.  The temperature is mostly comfortable, with broad tropical, subtropical, and temperate bands.  These factors combined make for a larger useful landmass than many League worlds can boast.

	This is fortunate because there exist at least three distinct varieties of Nari, the people.  The most numerous are the familiar Tenari, people who do, but there are also the former ruling class, the vaguely-Therian-looking Kynari, people who plan, and the offshoot native to a distant continent, the Feylid-resembling Lanari, wild people or people who are free, depending on the dialect – or, more vulgarly, people who do wrong.  Despite their disparate appearances, these are in fact members of the same species; intermarriage, though historically very rare, is today less uncommon, and few think twice of it.

	Though the history of the Tenari is rather violent – surprisingly so, for those familiar with the modern Tenari – this seems to have largely ended around the time of their industrial revolution, with a Tenari-led government taking control from the old Kynari nobility.  The initial environmental ravages common to industrial-age cultures have subsequently been cleaned up, and much of the planet now appears pristine, with a plethora of splendid beaches, picturesque forests, sweeping grasslands, and inspiring mountain vistas to lure travelers.  The cities, too, are clean, and range from historic towns that retain their medieval walls and, in some cases, historic structures to bright neon-infused megalopolises of art-deco grandeur.  Ascetic mountain village retreats and lurid big-city debauchery can both be found by those who would seek them, and occasionally in closer proximity than one might expect.  Tourism is one of the major industries of Narimera, and the Tenari offer, as the old saw goes, something for everyone.

Physiology

	The Nari share many physical traits between their three subtypes.  They all possess nearly-hairless skin, of tones ranging from pale to golden to chocolate brown; their hair spans the entire spectrum from pure white to pure black, with fanciful shades such as pink and blue not being uncommon; their eyes likewise span a broad range, with gold, purple, blue, and orange being nearly as common as brown, green, or hazel.  Their furred ears and tails sometimes do not match the rest of their hair, so that it’s not uncommon to find, for instance, a redheaded Kynari with white ears and tail.  An adult Nari usually stands between 1.5m (5’) and 1.8m (6’) in height, discounting the ears, but heights of as much as 2.1m (7’) are not unheard of; male Nari on average stand 5cm (2”) taller than females.  They tend to be light for their height; Nari almost universally are slender and even delicate in appearance.  

	Tenari in particular stand out from the other Nari subtypes in two ways.  Most obviously, there is the fact that many Tenari lack a tail.  This is more common among males than females, but it occurs in both sexes and seems to be a dominant trait.  Secondly, and inexplicably, is the fact that the Tenari appear aesthetically appealing to almost every other known race.  They are, in a word, attractive, almost universally.  This quirk has served them well as entertainers, hosts, and even diplomats.  Some have suggested this has to do with their empathic abilities.

	Kynari tend to be a little taller than their counterparts.

Psionics

	Which brings us to a matter that should be addressed before delving into the minutia of Narimera and its people:  the Tenari are one of the few League races to manifest psychic abilities.  Most, though perhaps not all, Tenari seem to possess the latent potential for empathic abilities; more powerful individuals are known to manifest full telepathy and sometimes clairsentience, and a handful develop other, more tangible abilities.  Not all of the Tenari choose to develop these talents, but enough do that, some suggest, their general societal cohesion is a result.  The Tenari may not agree with each other, but at some level, they tend to understand each other, and this keeps social conflict to a relatively low level and suppresses violent tendencies.

	Interestingly, this does not hold true for the other Nari.  Among the Kynari, psychic potential is rare, but those individuals who do possess and develop it are almost always quite powerful, and they tend to exhibit psychokinesis, pyrokinesis, and other such ‘physical’ abilities.  On the other hand, among the Lanari, psychic powers have never been proven to manifest.  Some have suggested that certain individual Lanari manifest a psychic “danger sense,” but there is no evidence that this is anything more than a certain degree of paranoia, justified historically by their unique conditions.

	Happily, most Tenari who do possess such abilities are loathe to use them intrusively.  Many Tenari empaths cannot help but pick up on a traveler’s general mood, but a guest generally need not worry about a telepath reading his thoughts or delving into his memories without permission.  Where such infractions do occur, they are punishable by law, and the presence of a number of Tenari telepaths among the planetary security forces ensures that that law is, to some degree, enforceable.

Faith

	While the Tenari are not particularly faithful, there are three indigenous faiths of note.  The first is a polytheistic belief similar to those seen among many League races, of gods that descended from the heavens to create the Nari and set them upon their path.  During the medieval period, the Kynari made use of this faith as another method of controlling the more-populous Tenari.

	The second, Maritanism, is a duotheistic faith that arose during the Tenari Renaissance.  While it retained elements of the polytheistic faith, it combined the various gods and goddesses into a single entity, which it cast as a source of good.  It presented a second, hitherto-unknown entity, known as Karita, The Great Enemy – unsurprisingly, the source of evil.  Maritanism spread through Tenari society like wildfire, and extinguished almost as quickly; by the early industrial period, there were only some million followers remaining, and the number of believers is not much larger than that today.

	The third, and today the most popular, is Somine ne Kiruhuhal.  The name doesn’t translate readily, but Shokari usually render it Serenity Arising From Chaos Arising From Serenity.  While certain references show its roots lie in the polytheistic belief, Somine de-emphasizes the beliefs regarding the gods and their rules in favor of a regimen of meditation, ritualistic riddles, and indulgence in various pleasures.  In this last, it is perhaps the most representative of the Tenari.  Be that as it may, Somine has proven effective as a means of training Tenari psychics, and many today still study at what it terms its monasteries – though many other races would consider them resorts, given the array of amenities they offer.  Attendance is not limited to psychics, however, nor even to Tenari; some extraplanetary guests have been known to spend time studying the Tenari ways of meditation and indulgence.  Somine’s roots lie in the bronze age, but it didn’t truly rise to prominence until the Renaissance, alongside the upstart Maritan faith.

	The highest virtue of the Tenari, according to the precepts of Somine, is Hope.  Beneath and supporting it are the triune of Love, Knowledge, and Joy.  Numerous lesser virtues support each of these in turn, and different teachers in Somine tend to place different emphases on them.  Some would not be seen as unusual in other races’ beliefs:  Filial Duty, Loyalty, Cooperation.  Others might raise some eyebrows.  Perhaps most notable are the absence of some virtues other races hold in common:  Somine recognizes no virtue of Honor or martial Valor; its virtue of Courage is not based on direct confrontation with an enemy, but on the ability to stand up for one’s beliefs.

Culture

	The Tenari are well-known among League races for their gentle and libertine nature.  Theirs is a generally peaceful, friendly, and welcoming society and boasts a rich culture.  Indeed, as previously mentioned, their total entertainment and educational program output is roughly the equal of that of the rest of the League combined.  The entertainment and hospitality sectors are the biggest job sector of the Tenari; artisanal production and scholarly pursuits follow.  Tenari who prove adept at math or physics are likely to pursue architecture, engineering, or industrial design; those who enjoy the biological or chemical sciences, medicine.

	The smallest sector is military and law enforcement.  While there are detectives and peacekeeping forces, and a system of courts and prisons, Narimera has no true military.  It does possess an expeditionary space force, but aside from a few vessels and stations designated for defense, its ships are largely scout, science, or diplomatic designs, only lightly armed.  Many races would consider this foolish if not insane, but for the Tenari, it has worked.  They have an innate appeal, even attractiveness, to almost all other known species, and this, combined with their talent for picking up languages and cultural norms, makes their diplomacy extremely effective.  More than one would-be invader has found themselves talked down and ultimately seduced by the pleasures of Narimera.

	And those pleasures are considerable.  Almost everything is available, legally, on Narimera.  Food, liquor, drugs, gambling, prostitution – all of it is legal and regulated.  Further, the Tenari joyously adopt and adapt pieces of alien cultures, blending them with others, or with their own.  On most worlds, one would not expect to find a variation of traditional Lunarian meat stew served with a Tenari fruit-based sauce and using Lavi spices; on Narimera, it’s on the menu next to twenty other such fusions, all of them surprisingly pleasant to the palate.  This is true of other sectors as well; a visitor might find himself humming along to a popular song, only to realize it’s a tone-shifted, uptempo reimagining of a Miserii dirge, and its primary backing instrument is a Therian trumpet.

	Unsurprisingly, there are few Tenari in combat roles among the Star League’s military, and those are almost exclusively pilots and artillerists.  Overall, Tenari enlist at rates nearly equal to those of Shokari or Therians, but Tenari take up noncombat support roles, such as medical, intelligence, and logistics.  The Lanari and Kynari are more inclined to take on combat roles, but they remain rare sights among the ranks simply because of their relatively low populations – and, in the case of the Lanari, a general aversion to strict rank-and-file authority.

	Given all of that, it surprises many outsiders to learn that the Tenari have a rather bloody pre-industrial history.  In the days of the feudal Kynari monarchs, many wars were fought, and the Tenari developed numerous martial arts of their own.  The spear was their favored melee weapon, and bows and crossbows were both ubiquitous.  Today, a few of these martial forms survive in the forms of spear, sword, dagger, wheel, staff, and whip “dancing,” as well as slowed-down unarmed forms that vaguely resemble ballet in their intricacy.  They are still quite effective when the showiest flourishes are stripped away and the movements sped up.

